Quickstart.md, before:

# Getting Set Up

At minimum to play Agora, you need to subscribe to the four mailing lists. Do not sign up for the digest, it's too confusing to use for play. Most players filter agora messages to their own folder, and some players even use an email account just for Agora.

See our [email advice](Email) for more specific tips on filters and other things that will help you get organized.

## The Four Lists

The mailing lists are part of how we keep things organized. They each serve a different purpose:

* Agora-Official is for reports that list current game information, or things that everyone is able to respond to, like voting on proposals and elections.

* Agora-Business is for taking game actions. It's where most things are done.

* Agora-Discussion is for discussing the game. Things sent here have no gameplay effect.

* Tue/BAK is an emergency backup. The other three mailing lists have the same host, so if something is wrong with them gameplay may temporarily happen here. Additionally, players will ocassionally try to sneak actions through here because people don't pay as much attention to it. Usually, this list is inactive.

Agora-Discussion is the only one where the things said have no gameplay effect. Sometimes people accidentally send things to Agora-Discussion when they meant it to have a gameplay effect. This is usually responded to with "Not to the Public Forum (NttPF)", and the original sender may quote it and send it to the proper list with the message "This Time to the Public Forum (TTttPF)".

You may find it useful to have your email filter and tag each mailing list so you can quickly identify them and sort them.

## Keeping Up

When Agora is very active, it's possible to get 50+ messages a day. This can be overwhelming. It's important to realize that players aren't expected to read and respond to every message every day. If you miss something, other players will help you out.

Knowing what to pay attention to and what to skim or even ignore can be difficult at first, and there's no single right answer. However, these guidelines might help you out:

* Agora-Discussion is just discussion. Nothing posted there is ever necessary reading. Skim or even entirely ignore it if you don't have time.

* Agora-Official is mostly reports. Reports are there for reference. You don't need to read them unless you're looking for specific information.

* Most actions don't involve or effect you. Agora often has many side games and activities going on, some of which only involve a handful of players. If you don't understand what someone is doing in a message, feel free to ask. But there's a good chance if it looks like it doesn't impact you, you can ignore it.

* Consider the thread. If the original message in the thread was irrelevant to you, the replies likely are too. A thread can often devolve to a small set of players responding to each other, which is likely not relevant to you.

Remember, you don't have to engage in every side game and activity that happens in Agora. Engage with the parts that interest you, and feel free to ignore the others.

Commit message:

add more permanent play tips

Quickstart.md, after:

## Getting Set Up

At minimum to play Agora, you need to subscribe to the four mailing lists. Do not sign up for the digest, it's too confusing to use for play. Most players filter agora messages to their own folder, and some players even use an email account just for Agora.

See our [email advice](Email) for more specific tips on filters and other things that will help you get organized.

### The Four Lists

The mailing lists are part of how we keep things organized. They each serve a different purpose:

* Agora-Official is for reports that list current game information, or things that everyone is able to respond to, like voting on proposals and elections.

* Agora-Business is for taking game actions. It's where most things are done.

* Agora-Discussion is for discussing the game. Things sent here have no gameplay effect.

* Tue/BAK is an emergency backup. The other three mailing lists have the same host, so if something is wrong with them gameplay may temporarily happen here. Additionally, players will ocassionally try to sneak actions through here because people don't pay as much attention to it. Usually, this list is inactive.

Agora-Discussion is the only one where the things said have no gameplay effect. Sometimes people accidentally send things to Agora-Discussion when they meant it to have a gameplay effect. This is usually responded to with "Not to the Public Forum (NttPF)", and the original sender may quote it and send it to the proper list with the message "This Time to the Public Forum (TTttPF)".

You may find it useful to have your email filter and tag each mailing list so you can quickly identify them and sort them.

### Keeping Up

When Agora is very active, it's possible to get 50+ messages a day. This can be overwhelming. It's important to realize that players aren't expected to read and respond to every message every day. If you miss something, other players will help you out.

Knowing what to pay attention to and what to skim or even ignore can be difficult at first, and there's no single right answer. However, these guidelines might help you out:

* Agora-Discussion is just discussion. Nothing posted there is ever necessary reading. Skim or even entirely ignore it if you don't have time.

* Agora-Official is mostly reports. Reports are there for reference. You don't need to read them unless you're looking for specific information.

* Most actions don't involve or effect you. Agora often has many side games and activities going on, some of which only involve a handful of players. If you don't understand what someone is doing in a message, feel free to ask. But there's a good chance if it looks like it doesn't impact you, you can ignore it.

* Consider the thread. If the original message in the thread was irrelevant to you, the replies likely are too. A thread can often devolve to a small set of players responding to each other, which is likely not relevant to you.

Remember, you don't have to engage in every side game and activity that happens in Agora. Engage with the parts that interest you, and feel free to ignore the others.

## Playing

Play can change frequently, so some of this could be inaccurate. This was last updated **June 22, 2020**.

### Taking Actions

Most actions are done simply by saying "I \[do the action\]" in agora-business. Some actions have conditions you have to meet, outlined in the rules. If you make a mistake taking an action, other players will gladly help you fix it.

### Registration

Simply send a message that says "I register" to agora-business@agoranomic.org. You may want to specify your prefered name as well.

When you register you can award yourself, or be awarded by another player, a Welcome Package. This will give you some items. Check the rules to see what it specifically gives you right now.

### Voting

You can vote on any proposals that are distributed while you are a player. The Promotor will Distribute proposals in agora-official with their full text. You can specify your vote for each one as FOR, AGAINST, PRESENT, or a conditional vote such as "endorse \[Player\]" or even something more complex.
